---
title: DEADLINE 1993 Chief Sonny Nlewedim
coverImage: /covers/deadline-1993-chief-sonny-nlewedim.jpg
heroImage: /assets/images/interim.jpg
rank: 10
---

NIGERIANS, ever gripped by the fear of a long-lasting political
crisis, perhaps of unimaginable magnitude, may have heaved a sigh of
relief with government acceding to the two political parties' choice
of an interim national government. issue.

The Interim government option was earlier floated by government
together with the dissolution of all elected structures. But the
political parties accepted it in principle rejecting the attendant
dissolution. In turn, the government rejected their modification,
arguing that the parties ought to accept it wholesale. For according
to it, the only way such a government could operate effectively was
through the dissolution of all democratic structures

But as the crisis raged, the parties once again went into closed
decisions of their elected representative- party leaders who
recommended the option. More also, when the option is seen as a
compromise between government’s position and the different
posturing's of the two parties on the issue.

The government’s acceptance came soon after assurance by president
Ibrahim Babangida that solution to the crisis will soon be found.
What legitimacy or credibility will it command? The answers provided
by observers are as varied as the posers themselves. Lagos-based
businessman, Prince Obinna Okwuaka would want neutral person to
mid-wife th interim national government.
Although he would want the arrangement to be predicted on chief
Abiola as an equation given that his name has become the lingering
issue since June 12, Prince Okwuaka, however, remarked that is an
SDP senator “legitimacy is not a one-way traffic- it can be achieved
structurally, textually or socially and what matters now is that
first, the two parties have agreed, secondly government concurs and
majority of the elites accepting too”. Such legitimacy may also be
attained by mobilizing the entire citizenry, and with all others,
there is bound to be an international acceptance of legitimacy, he
further said.

The constitutional provision which makes it mandatory that the
senate president be made to function as the leader of such
arrangement does not yet arise.
