---
title: Industralist Need Incentives from the Goverment
coverImage: /covers/industralist-need-incentives-from-the-goverment.jpg
heroImage: /assets/images/industrialists.jpg
rank: 8
---

Chief Sonny Nlwedim, chairman of Interbond Nigeria Limited,
manufactures of electrical appliances and accessories is to humble,
almost why that on a first encounter, one would be quick to ask how
he has been able to build for himself a business empire which also
includes a finance company, a mortgage bank and others.

The other interesting thing about the dark complexioned and
middle-aged man is the English meaning of the last three letters in
his Surname. For a Helman of an electrical company, “diming’ the
light may be the least expected of him. But even if the
sophisticated chandeliers which he sells with other items at his
Adeniyi Jones, Ikeja, head office, dim the light, Nlewedim’s warmth
and sense of humor are of high voltage. Humble as he is, he likes
challenges which is perhaps why he is into the chandelier market for
the rich.

His words: ‘it is a competitive trade and I like challenges. It
brings but the best individual. Besides, I discovered that we don’t
naturally have much of this business in this part of the world,
having worked with an electrical and chandelier manufacturing
company in the U.K. I have decided to go into the trade; to see if I
can actualize the same dreams these people had achieved.

According to him, the use of chandeliers is not foreign to Africa,
since historically their origin is Ancient Egypt. He will not take
the suggestion that his business is only for the rich, saying that
he has other shops in Alaba Market where cheaper (price) varieties
of his products are available. However, Nlewedim, who is also the
chairman if Interbond finance and Finance and Securities admitted
that Nigerians which have money to build houses go for fitting with
aesthetic value because they don’t compromise on value. “Such
consumers want to have the best in value oe have nothing at all, and
we are trying to match their taste,“ he added. Also admitting that
the boom in the construction industry last year, through early this
rubbed off the interior decoration and lightening business, be
lamented the hall into which the political uncertantly has thorn the
business activities in, wishing that the impasse is quickly resolved
to accelerate the wheels of economic development.

Nlewedim, an awardee of the Men of Achievement Award organized in
August by the Corporate Press Services also decried the situation in
the foreign exchange market where practitioners in the productive
sector buy foreign exchange at black market rates because of their
demand in the official market. The situation, he said he reinforced
the company positively into planning for expansion in local
production which presently contributes to the percent of is total
suppliers. For local production, he explained, the company readily
gets raw materials and can plan ahead with it, unlike the 60 percent
of imported sources overseas , which the political situation has
made unpredictable and risky”, “we nee political stability to plan
ahead as it is done is all economies. “

Nlewedim humility again came to the fore when he explained why some
finance houses run into trouble, “Some finance houses were greedy.
They kept on accruing liabilities despite their shallow capital base
and were careless what their choice of customers. Finance houses
that have survived the storm are basically those that were very
conscious of the risk management, for example those who took their
customers lenders and borrowers through and through” According to
him, it was reasonable for finance house to see the challenge they
faced in breaking the banks’ monopoly of the money market, but it
was entirely wrong to rush the way some finance houses did in their
attempt to beat the banks.

Taking a general look at the problems of industrialist; especially
local inventors, Nlewedim restated the popular demand that they need
support and their encouragement from government to enable them to
survive the seemingly impressible problems of his cost of funds,
lack of adequate infrastructure of the poor exchange rate of the
naira. He, for example, the government and the Central Bank of
Nigeria (CBN) to remove commercial and merchant banks as middlemen a
sell foreign exchange directly to investors will add value to the
economy faster. Our foreign exchange earnings have drastically and
must very careful with the line we have,” he said.
