---
title: Who Speaks for Ndi Igbo?
coverImage: /covers/who-speaks-for-ndi-igbo.jpg
heroImage: /assets/images/ndigbo.jpg
rank: 4
---

Ndi Igbo have had to contend with a situation of the absence of a
rallying point especially in issues of national discourse.

Whereas other tribes in Nigeria even with their divergent views and
pockets of isolated grouping easily identify a common ground based
on the intercession of individuals or institutions that everyone
have grown to respect, same cannot be said of Ndi Igbo. Granted that
Igbos are the quintessential republicans whose opinions are guided
not by superior authorities of sort, but by sheer power of
conviction in matters of national or local dimension, that does not
resolve the problem of marginalization that has been recurring. In a
state of objective assessment of issues and a setting that is
monolithic, such could be a source of strength but not in Nigeria
where tribal loyalty ranks highest' in fashioning the mood of the
state.

Not really prepared to appreciate that a prevention to national
loyalty smack of criminal illusion, Ndi Igbo have over the years
lost out as a group but had to be contented with playing the ostrich
when other ethnic groups are seriously negotiating for a better
"settlement" in the scheme of things. It is disturbing that our
people have had to be called bad names and had to do the dirty
hachetman's job only to create the oppurtunity for other tribes to
be able to settle for a bettersettlement in the scheme of things

Just recently, one of the popular magazines in this country
published a list indicating power distribution in the country since
independence. Any son of Igbo land who lays claim to charr.pioning
the course of our people should really hide his head in shame and
see wisdom in our coming together for once and asserting ourselves
within legally accepted means. While the two other major tribes are
fast fine-tuning their agenda for the constitutional conference, the
Igbo's are busy dismembering themselves and rallying around local
champions whose only credential to talk for the lgbos is that they
can afford three-square meals daily. Where are the traditional
leaders? Where are the elites? Where are the politicians who have
seen it all? Everyone is maintaining a criminal silence as an
average Igbo man of notable standard is wont to behave, allowing
elf-styled Igbo leaders to steal the show even when their (forts can
best pass for the ranting’s of an ant. It’s unfortunate that even
with mounting cynical reception to constitutional conference has
received in the West and North, they are not resting on their oars.
Series of meaningful meetings have been held by the people and they
are in the final stage of building an amalgam of diverging views all
aimed at building a strong tribal bridge with which to face the rest
of the country at the constitutional conference.

Those who are supposed to create the forum for Eastern block to come
together are rather pre-occupied with taking the center-stage in
other ethnic fora, in dishing out text-book theories on how to
realise unity in diversity when their own tribe has been obviously
marginalized and nothing concrete is being done to redress same.
Have we suddenly forgotten the popular Igbo saying, Igwe bu ike in
unity lies strength? It is disturbing that the constitutional
conference may eventually take them unawares because they are really
not armed as a group to present common demands at the conference. We
may not all be right or wrong at the same time but the
directionlessness of the Igbo race in the scheme of things in this
country places a burden of justification of our silence before our
children in no distant time. Individual success should not call for
celebration when we have to walk through the tight ropes to get to
where others reached by merely idling around and placing calls at
the right places.

Yes, Ndi Igbo have produced more titled men and possibly loud
millionaires more than the other tribes. But how did these come
about? Was it a product of the opportunities availed us by our
fatherland or did we have to squeeze out water from stone?

There are more millionaires, though silent, in other tribes than
Igbo land, but when you cannot conveniently identify the job you did
to earn your millions, you'd rather be silent and continue stealing
from the coffers of a sleeping nation. The constitutional
conference, if it must hold, should provide a room for Ndi Igbo to
ask soul-searching questions. But tell me how you can go hunting
when your gun-powder is wet?

Ndi Igbo should really put their acts together before professional
noise makers and self-styled publicity hungry "1gbo leaders" spoil
the soup. We may not get others to see reason but let history and
the records hold it to our credit that we called attention to the
injustice and denigration of a race that has been most loyal,
resourceful and patient.
